

===== Summary =====

Version 0.11.0 of the Rcpp package is now on CRAN and its mirrors.  

This new release brings a number of new features, most noticably a simplified
build, as well as improvements to existing features and bugfixes. Complete
details can be found in the NEWS and ChangeLog files which are included in
the package.



===== Overview =====

Rcpp is an R package and associated C++ library for seamless integration
between C++ and R.  

It has been described in a Journal of Statistical Software (2011, Vol 40,
Issue 08) paper (also included in the package as the "Rcpp-introduction" pdf
vignette) and a book "Seamless R and C++ Integration with Rcpp" (2013,
Springer, useR! Series).

As of early 2014, Rcpp is used by over 160 other CRAN packages making it the
most widely-used language interface for R.

Several key features of the new 0.11.0 release are described below.



===== Building with Rcpp =====

Thanks to the 'LinkingTo:' directive, R already instructed the compiler where
to fine header files when writing code with Rcpp. The package now uses the
registration facilities in R (see Section 5.4 in Writing R Extensions). With
just an 'Imports: Rcpp' in DESCRIPTION along with an explicit import
statement in the NAMESPACE file such 'importFrom(Rcpp, evalCpp)' all required
Rcpp code will be properly instantiated without any explicit linking. [ Note
that just using 'import(Rcpp)' is not sufficient, but any exported C++
identifier should do -- evalCpp is nice and short. ]

The key benefit is that package should no longer require files src/Makevars
and src/Makevars.win to link with Rcpp, and many packages will be able to
retire these values. The exception, of course, is the case where the package
links against an external library.



===== Rcpp attributes =====

Rcpp attributes were a key innovation in the 0.10.0; they have matured
further and have now become the standard way to build code with Rcpp.  See
the dedicated vignette for details.


==== C++11 Support =====

R 3.1.0, to be released in a few month, will permit compilation using C++11,
the newest C++ standard -- including for packages going to CRAN.  Rcpp had
already supported 'local' builds using C++11 since version 0.10.3, simply add

   [[Rcpp::plugins(cpp11)]]

and Rcpp attributes takes care of the rest.


===== Memory management =====

A number of internal data structures were rewritten.



===== Links =====

Rcpp site:
    http://www.rcpp.org

Dirk's Rcpp page: 
    http://dirk.eddelbuettel.com/code/rcpp.html

GitHub page: 
    https://github.com/RcppCore/Rcpp

R-forge project page: 
    http://r-forge.r-project.org/projects/rcpp/

Google+: 
    https://plus.google.com/b/107029540907667241299/107029540907667241299/posts
    


===== Support =====

Questions about Rcpp should be directed to the Rcpp-devel mailing list
    https://lists.r-forge.r-project.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/rcpp-devel

While we prefer the mailing list, StackOverflow has also become a frequently
used resource under the [rcpp] tag:
    http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/rcpp



On behalf of the Rcpp Core team,  

   Dirk Eddelbuettel
   January 2014



